#LyX 1.5.6 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 276
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\newcommand{\mynote}[1]{}
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Standard


\backslash
mynote{}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
About Cigma
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The CIG Model Analyzer (Cigma) consists of a suite of tools for comparing
 numerical models.
 CIG has developed Cigma in response to demand from the short-term tectonics
 community for a simple tool that can perform rigorous error analysis on
 their finite element codes.
 The long-term goal for Cigma, however, is for it to be used for nearly
 all geodynamics modeling codes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The current version of Cigma is intended for the calculation of 
\begin_inset Formula $L_{2}$
\end_inset

 residuals for finite element models.
 This software was designed for performing the following three main tasks:
 (1) error analysis, (2) benchmarking, and (3) code verification.
 In error analysis, Cigma can calculate a global measure of the error between
 two solutions by performing an integration over a discretized version of
 the common domain.
 This comparison can take place even when the underlying discretizations
 do not overlap.
 In benchmarking, Cigma can help the geodynamics community agree on a standard
 solution to specific problems by facilitating the process of comparing
 different numerical codes against each other.
 Lastly, as an automated tool, Cigma can help application developers create
 regression tests to ensure that software changes do not affect the consistency
 of the results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At its core, Cigma draws from a variety of libraries.
 The 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "FInite element Automatic Tabulator (FIAT)"
target "www.fenics.org/wiki/FIAT"

\end_inset

 Python Library supports generation of arbitrary order instances of the
 Lagrange elements on lines, triangles, and tetrahedra.
 It can also generate higher order instances of Jacobi-type quadrature rules
 on the same element shapes.
 The 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "Approximate Nearest Neighbor (ANN)"
target "www.cs.umd.edu/~mount/ANN/"

\end_inset

 Library, written in C++, supports data structures and algorithms for both
 exact and nearest-neighbor searching in arbitrarily high dimensions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Both of these libraries extend and generalize Cigma's functionality so it
 can handle other types of elements, and provide the ability to compare
 vector fields.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Citation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Computational Infrastructure for Geodynamics (CIG) is making this source
 code available to you in the hope that the software will enhance your research
 in geophysics.
 This is a brand-new code and at present no papers are published or press.
 Please cite this manual as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Armendariz, L., and S.
 Kientz.
 
\emph on
Cigma User Manual.

\emph default
 Pasadena, CA: Computational Infrastructure of Geodynamics, 2008.
 URL: geodynamics.org/cig/software/cs/cigma/cigma.pdf
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CIG requests that in your oral presentations and in your papers that you
 indicate your use of this code and acknowledge the author of the code and
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand htmlurl
name "CIG"
target "geodynamics.org"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Support
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cigma development is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundatio
n under Grant No.
 EAR-0406751.
 Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
 this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the
 views of the National Science Foundation.
 The code is being released under the GNU General Public License.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
